PasLu 
 
## Resume 
* absence of relation between the temporal auditory responses and the auditory hypersensitivity
* Correlation was not found when comparing the severity of the auditory disorder with the autistic symptomatology, considering the cognitive aspect of language in the same population
* some authors had also correlated the sensorial abnormalities with attention, demonstrating that the fact of being very reactive is related to attention increase, and vice versa
* The authors suggested, at the same time, that the deficit in orientation and response to sounds is more related to attention than to sensorial processing
 
## Introduction 
 
## Etude 
 
## Discussion 
 

Learning to read is a cornerstone of children's academic achievement, but attaining reading proficiency is a rather long process that unfolds over several years. Novice readers are slow and effortful decoders who analyze the orthographic segments of words sequentially to map them onto phonology. The development of orthography-to-phonology mappings is not always fully established after the first year of formal literacy instruction, especially in opaque orthographies such as French or English \citep{seymour2003}. Moreover, accurate decoding is not sufficient for the development of fluent reading. As children progress from novice to skilled reading, they gradually acquire the ability to recognize most printed words by sight (without the need for phonological recoding) and map them directly to meaning. This transition is driven by orthographic learning, defined as the capacity to memorize word-specific orthographic knowledge \citep{castles2018}. Within just a few years, children acquire the orthographic representations of thousands of words. This learning process occurs largely incidentally through repeated exposure to printed words, rather than through explicit instruction \citep{castles2006}. Importantly, orthographic learning begins with the onset of literacy instruction and continues throughout the lifespan, as even skilled readers must develop representations for unfamiliar words they encounter in text \citep{share1995, share2008}.

%The self-teaching theory \citep{share1995,share1999, share2008} is the main \red{cross-linguistic} theoretical framework for incidental orthographic learning. \red{The theory postulates that self-teaching is primarily an item-based process and that decoding is the key mechanism by which orthographic knowledge is acquired. Each} novel word is initially decoded through slow serial processing and successful decoding \red{provides an opportunity} for orthographic learning. Once the orthographic form of the word is memorized, then subsequent processing of the same printed word would rely on ``direct'' mapping to word-specific lexical orthographic knowledge. However, decoding is not always successful. In opaque languages such as English or French, the pronunciation of a word is not always predictable from its orthography because of inconsistencies between the mapping of orthographic and phonological information. Even if pronunciation is predictable for an expert reader, it may not be so for a novice reader with limited orthographic knowledge. \green{The self-teaching theory assumes a single learning mechanism operates in all cases. Nonetheless,} \red{in cases of partial decoding,} \green{which are more frequent in difficult cases}, \red{self-teaching would benefit from oral vocabulary knowledge and contextual information, when available.} 
%The context in which the word is encountered could provide meaning cues that help activate semantically related phonological words in memory. Converging evidence from meaning and partial decoding would allow for accurate identification of the phonological word in memory, which would trigger orthographic learning. 
%As a result, incidental learning would be facilitated for words that are orthographically novel but phonologically and semantically familiar as part of the child’s oral vocabulary. \green{Thus, the self-teaching theory proposes that even in adulthood, readers rely on decoding when encountering new words; what varies, however, is the extent to which context and oral vocabulary knowledge are necessary for successful orthographic learning.}

The self-teaching theory \citep{share1995,share1999, share2008} provides insights into the mechanisms underlying incidental orthographic learning and the factors that modulate learning efficiency. The theory postulates that self-teaching is an item-based process in which decoding serves as the primary mechanism for acquiring orthographic knowledge. Each novel word is initially decoded through slow, serial processing, and successful decoding \red{provides an opportunity} for orthographic learning. Once the orthographic representation of a word is established, subsequent encounters with that word can be processed more efficiently by directly activating the newly-acquired orthographic representation in long-term memory, thereby facilitating faster and more accurate recognition of the target word. 


Self-teaching has been investigated across a wide range of languages. Numerous studies have examined this process in English (e.g.,\citep{cunningham2002, joseph2014, kyte2006, nation2007, pagan2019, wang2013}. Importantly, supporting evidence has also been reported in other European languages-- such as French \citep{bosse2015, chaves2020, ginestet2022, sabatier2023}, Spanish \citep{suarezcoalla2014} or Dutch \citep{dejong2009}—as well as in other language families –such as Hebrew \citep{share2008}, or Chinese \citep{li2021}. Taken together, these findings support the view that self-teaching is a universal mechanism \citep{share2025}. Self-teaching is also a lifelong process \citep{castles2018, share2008}. Although the theory has been investigated more extensively in children (see \citet{li2023} for a review), it is also evidenced in adult readers \citep{pagan2019, ginestet2022, pellicer2016, chrabaszcz2023}. Several studies have shown that repeated exposure to the same words leads to more efficient processing and a reduced length effect, in both children and adults \citep{joseph2018, ginestet2022, suarezcoalla2014, maloney2009}, which is commonly interpreted as a marker of orthographic learning. 

% le lien avec ce paragraphe ??? A similar influence of various factors, such as visuo-orthographic processing \citep{bosse2015, chaves2020} or phonological recoding \citep{share2008, kyte2006, chrabaszcz2023}, was also reported across ages. 


Although orthographic learning operates through common mechanisms across languages and ages, the process can be more or less challenging, mostly depending on the ease with which a novel word can be decoded. In opaque languages such as English or French, word pronunciation is not always predictable from orthography, making the decoding of unfamiliar words challenging, even for skilled readers. Moreover, pronunciations that are predictable for expert readers may still pose difficulties for novice readers or children with dyslexia. This difficulty affects orthographic learning: in children \citep{wang2012, li2021} as in adults \citep{hulme2022, taylor2011}, better orthographic learning has been reported for novel words with high consistency and for readers with higher decoding skills. However, partial or inaccurate phonological decoding of a novel printed word does not necessarily preclude self-teaching. The self-teaching theory proposes that in this case, if the novel word is known orally, presence of context helps the reader identify the correct lexical item and thereby learn its orthographic representation. Empirical evidence supports this view by showing that prior knowledge of the novel word's phonology (for a review, \citet{wegener2022}) and meaningful context \citet{li2023}) both facilitate orthographic learning. 

Regarding prior phonological knowledge, strong evidence comes from training studies in which the pronunciation of novel words was provided before exposure to their spellings. This facilitated learning in adults \citet{chalmers2008, meade2020, taylor2011} and children \citet{kyte2006, murray2022, wang2013}, particularly when decoding was difficult. More broadly and across languages, oral vocabulary knowledge contributes to orthographic learning \citet{wegener2022} and predicts later reading achievement (for French, \citet{ecalle2023, Ziegler2010}). In line with the self-teaching theory, it has been proposed that a richer oral vocabulary increases the likelihood that a partially decoded phonological form can be matched to an existing lexical representation, thereby strengthening the links between newly acquired orthographic forms and their spoken counterparts.

With respect to context, a recent meta-analysis \citep{li&wang2023} of experimental studies in children provides converging evidence for a facilitating effect of word-specific context on orthographic learning across languages. This effect has also been reported in adults \citep{pagan2019, rodrigues2024}. In cases where the novel words are orally known, contextual information is particularly beneficial under conditions of difficult decoding, such as when novel words have inconsistent pronunciations \citep{tunmer1998, wang2011, murray2022} or when readers are poor decoders \citep{tunmer1998, perfetti1979}. \citet{tunmer1998} reported stronger context effects for intermediate readers than for either novice or proficient readers, suggesting that proficient readers could decode most words accurately without relying on context, whereas novice readers benefited only minimally due to very limited decoding skills. For intermediate readers, context primarily served to resolve partial decoding.


Finally, despite robust evidence for both contextual and phonological support, successful orthographic learning occurs even for words presented out of context \citep{ginestet2020, bosse2015, nation2007, rodriguez2024}, or whose phonology is initially unknown, such as pseudowords \citep{share1999, cunningham2002, joseph2014}. In fact, reading itself serves as a powerful mechanism for the development of oral vocabulary \citep{verhoeven2011, suk2017}.



%In this case, incidental learning may become a challenge in the absence of external feedback from a supervisor who can either provide the correct pronunciation or at least point out the child's decoding error.There is ample evidence that incidental learning occurs from the very beginning of reading acquisition, at a time where phonological decoding skills are not fully developed \citep{bosse2003, share2004}. The self-teaching theory can accommodate this finding, assuming an interaction of partial phonological decoding with context effects \citep{share1995}. The context in which the word is encountered could provide meaning cues that help activate semantically related phonological words in memory. Converging evidence from meaning and partial decoding would allow for accurate identification of the phonological word in memory, which would trigger orthographic learning. As a result, incidental learning would be facilitated for words that are orthographically novel but phonologically and semantically familiar as part of the child’s oral vocabulary. 

%\red{The self-teaching theory is largely supported by empirical data. Behavioral studies that used the standard self-teaching paradigm reported converging ividence that orthographic learning occurs after only a few exposures \citep{nation2007, share2004}. The studies that used eye movement monitoring during repeated exposure to the same words showed evidence for orthographic learning after a single exposure and improvement of processing times over exposures, suggesting gradual learning \citep{joseph2014, pagan2019, ginestet2020}. Confirming a key prediction of the theory, there is ample evidence that the orthographic form of novel words is more efficiently learned when the words have been accurately decoded \citep{share2008}. However, successful decoding is not a necessary condition of orthographic learning. Despite accurate decoding, learning the orthography of novel words is more difficult in conditions that prevent their entire letter string to be visually processed at once \citep{bosse2015}. Conversely, orthographic learning can be successful despite poor decoding.}







%\red{Several behavioral studies support the facilitating effect of prior phonological knowledge and context. It is well documented that children with extensive oral vocabulary have greater ease in learning to read \citep{ouellette2006, ricketts2007, castles2009, duff2015, krepel2021}. Strong evidence comes from training studies showing that learning the phonology of novel words before being exposed to their spelling has a positive effect on their orthographic learning (for a review, \citet{wegener2022}). More generally and across languages, vocabulary knowledge is a predictor of later reading achievement (for French, \citet{ecalle2023, Ziegler2010}). However, the relationship between oral vocabulary and reading acquisition is largely bidirectional. Early vocabulary knowledge predicts later word decoding, but, conversely, early word decoding predicts later vocabulary development \citep{verhoeven2011, suk2017}.


% However, more inconsistent results have been reported when the novel words were presented in conditions of general context that did not trigger any specific word. The word-specific context is also more useful when decoding is more difficult. Stronger effects have been reported for novel orthographic words with inconsistent pronunciation \citep{tunmer1998, wang2011, murray2022} and for less skilled readers than more skilled readers \citep{tunmer1998, perfetti1979}. \citet{tunmer1998} reported stronger context effects for intermediate readers than for novice or proficient readers, suggesting that proficient readers were able to decode most words accurately without relying on context and that novice readers only minimally benefited from context due to poor decoding skills. The context was used mainly by intermediate readers to resolve partial decoding.}




%Several behavioral studies support the facilitation effect of prior phonological knowledge and context. It is well documented that children with extensive oral vocabulary exhibit greater ease in learning to read \citep{ouellette2006, ricketts2007, castles2009, duff2012, duff2015}. Training studies , prior knowledge of the word’s phonology has a facilitating effect on orthographic learning \citep{mckague2001,nation2009}. There is also evidence that presenting the word in context facilitates learning, but this is mainly reported for orthographic words that have inconsistent pronunciations \citep{tunmer1998, wang2011, murray2022}. This findings suggest a particular effect of context when decoding is challenging. \red{Additionally, \citet{tunmer1998} also found that the effect of context was most pronounced for intermediate readers. Indeed, skilled readers may decode words effectively without relying on context, while very early readers may gain little from ambiguous context due to insufficient decoding skills.}
